#summary Research groups using the *_pi_* application.

= Introduction =

Here are brief descriptions and links to groups collaborating with the *_pi_* program.


= Research groups =

<ul>
<li><a href="http://shumway.physics.asu.edu">Shumway Research Group at Arizona State University</a><br/>
Research in path integral Monte Carlo methods, nanoelectronics, and semiconductor quantum dots.</li>
<li><a href="http://www.ece.illinois.edu/people/profile.asp?matthewg">Gilbert Research Group at University of Illinois</a><br/>
Research in nanoelectronics and electronic materials.
</li>
<li><a href="http://qsg.llnl.gov">Quantum Simulation Group at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory</a><br/>
The Quantum Simulations Group develops and uses state-of-the-art quantum simulation tools to predict new materials with target properties (e.g., novel nanostructures) and to investigate states of matter difficult to access experimentally (e.g., dynamical and extreme conditions).
</li>
<li><a href="http://people.ccmr.cornell.edu/~emueller/">Mueller Research Group at Cornell</a><br/>
Research in the theory of ultra-cold atomic gases. As the temperature is lowered, this thermal motion of atoms in a gas is reduced, but the Heisenberg uncertainty principle prevents the atoms from coming to a stop. Instead, at nanokelvin temperatures, quantum mechanics dictates the properties of these atomic gases. The group studies this strange and beautiful form of quantum matter.</li>
<li><a href="http://www.phy.hw.ac.uk/resrev/SemiTheory.htm">Semiconductor Theory Group at Heriot-Watt University</a><br/>
Research on the theory of semiconductors, with an aim to understand the fundamental processes and interactions which influence the behaviour of semiconductor material used in current and new photonic devices.</li>
</ul>